Final Notes

KEY ELEMENTS
1-Detailed summeries of events or activities
2-Analysis of the impact of the event
3-Evalutations of the facts and data
4-Predictions for what may happen as a result of an event
5-Recommendation for next course of action
6-Conclusion




The United States has been experiencing a shortage of welders for several years, and the American Welding Society (AWS) estimates that the shortage is growing. The AWS predicts that the country will need 336,000 to 400,000 new welding professionals by 2024 to 2026 to fill job openings, and that roughly 84,000 welding jobs will be filled every year until 2025.

The shortage is due to a number of factors, including:
Aging workforce: The average age of a welder in the US is 55, while the average age of an employee in the US is 42. Many welders have been retiring since the mid-2000s, and older tradespeople are nearing retirement age much faster than they can be replaced.
Lack of new welders: Fewer young people are entering technical training programs.
Increased demand: Demand for welders is increasing due to the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, the CHIPS and Science Act, the government's clean energy efforts, and defense contracting. 
Some say that automation and robotics could help alleviate the shortage by improving efficiency, quality, and consistency, and by attracting a new generation of workers. 
----------------
Sadly, with an aging workforce, the US has a big problem; an overwhelming shortage of welders. The average age of an employee in the US is 42, but in the welding industry, it is 55. Because of this, the US will need 375,000 welding professionals by 2023 to fill job openings.
---------------
More than 50% of all man-made products require welding. Many different industries employ welders so there are a huge variety of jobs available. Skilled welders will have a unique opportunity to have a career that can be shaped around their interests because of the high demand for skilled workers. 

welding is used in --
military aoolications
aircraft and aerospace
building construction
automotive industry
shipbuilding 
boiler
job shops

The welding industry will face a shortage of about 360,000 welders by 2027, according to the American Welding Society. There will be 90,000 average welding jobs to be filled annually between 2023-2027 due to industry growth and anticipated attrition due to retirement. The coming wave of retirements will leave the US with a great deficit in skilled welders in the work force.  . Manufacturing has grown faster than the rest of the U.S. economy since the recession.  In a recent article from Bloomberg business, Gardner Carrick, was quoted saying, "For 20 years we stopped feeding young people into the trades, and now we’re scrambling to catch up". Because of this great welder shortage, welding will certainly a viable career choice for years to come with many job opportunities for those entering the field. 

Welding is both an art and a science, from basic fabrication to advanced robotics. It's a great option for those who enjoy working with their hands and value a sense of community. The skills you'll acquire as a welder are also portable and can lead to rewarding careers in various industries.

Ranging from Shipfitter, Welding Research Scientist, or Pipeliner to Technical Sales, Welder Fabricator, Boilermaker, or Welding Engineer. Or perhaps you’d rather be a Welding Supervisor, Ironworker, or Welding Technician? Still not doing it for you? How about being an Underwater Welder, Pipefitter, Welding Inspector, Robotic Welding Technician, or Welding Educator?


-----SOURCES---
https://weldingworkforcedata.com/


Formerly incarcerated people need stable jobs for the same reasons as everyone else: to support themselves and their loved ones, pursue life goals, and strengthen their communities. But how many formerly incarcerated people are able to find work? Answering this fundamental question has historically been difficult, because the necessary national data weren’t available — that is, until now.

Using a nationally representative dataset, we provide the first ever estimate of unemployment among the 5 million formerly incarcerated people living in the United States.  Our analysis shows that formerly incarcerated people are unemployed at a rate of over 27% — higher than the total U.S. unemployment rate during any historical period, including the Great Depression.

Our estimate of the unemployment rate establishes that formerly incarcerated people want to work, but face structural barriers to securing employment, particularly within the period immediately following release. For those who are Black or Hispanic — especially women — status as “formerly incarcerated” reduces their employment chances even more. This perpetual labor market punishment creates a counterproductive system of release and poverty, hurting everyone involved: employers, the taxpayers, and certainly formerly incarcerated people looking to break the cycle.

Fortunately, as the recommendations presented in this report illustrate, there are policy solutions available that would create safer and more equitable communities by addressing unemployment among formerly incarcerated people.